Well, welcome to the Get Fit with Jodell podcast, I'm as usual Jodell and I'm eager to welcome
back on the show Dr. Raymond Pete, a regular here and for good reason, as you will find
out from his vast knowledge for those of you who are new to the podcast.
And I think I speak for all of you who aren't new to the podcast when I say he's very much
appreciated by many of you listeners.
And I know that because I typically reach out and let you guys know that I'm getting
ready to podcast with him and ask for questions and the emails overwhelm my inbox.
So it's kind of cool.
So we will get to as many of your questions today as possible and what we don't get to
will go into the queue for the next one.
So thank you so much for your questions and Dr. Pete, thank you so much for coming back
on the show and answering them.
Okay, you're welcome.
As always, you guys out there make sure that you take a moment and purchase Dr. Pete's
newsletter, which is one of my most favorite things I look forward to reading each time
they come out, you can purchase a hard copy or an email copy of his newsletter by emailing
Ray Pete's newsletter at gmail.com.
So I'll have that link in the show notes for you.
Okay, so Dr. Pete, I'm going to share something with you.
Finally, I had a client who got it.
What I mean is after finally cracking down on her EMF exposure, her radiation exposure
to 5G and Wi Fi and Bluetooth, all her irritating symptoms of numbness, tingling, back pain
and other inflammation completely disappeared.
I had been trying to get her to understand this for a while.
So Dr. Pete, I'm going to start off this podcast asking you about your environment and your
EMF exposure because what I know of you is that you don't come on camera.
You're always on a phone when you dial in for a call.
And so it seems to me that you really keep your device usage to a minimum and you kind
of mitigate your exposure to radiation.
And so I wanted to know that about you.
I wanted to know like, do you do that on purpose, like to not have that, you know, camera and
computer always on?
And how do you feel about that?
What do you think?
Definitely it's all deliberate that my telephone is a landline and they're hinting that they
might discontinue that service and all of my computer parts are connected by wires and
it's getting hard to like subscribing to the internet.
They automatically want to set up a little broadcast station in your house, but you can
still manage to get, I forget what they call it, an ethernet table or single disk and then
each part speakers, monitor, computer, everything is separately connected to a wire.
I agree with you on that and I wish, I live in a camper, so unfortunately I can't have
a landline, but I do mitigate my phone where when I'm not using my cell phone, it's off,
it's away from me.
I don't carry it on me unless it's in airplane mode because I'm concerned, like I've seen
people really come back from poor health issues after mitigating their exposure and getting
more nature outside, more sunshine instead of always being around this chronic wifi and
Bluetooth that we're exposed to.
So I'm glad to hear you say, and it speaks volumes about you because look how healthy
you are at what 80, are you 87 or 88?
No, 85.
Oh, 85, okay, I put you too high, but regardless, that's I think one of the reasons, one of
the many reasons why you are as healthy as you are at 85, so I appreciate that about
you.
I hear from lots of people who are just in terrible condition, they actually say they
look at the screen on their wireless telephone, almost all their waking hours and it's no
wonder they're having eye problems and appetite problems, everything goes wrong when you simply
don't live the way an animal is designed to live.
Absolutely.
I'm so glad you mentioned the weight problems or the appetite problems because it's so true,
there's published data on the fact that these devices and the exposure to them actually
elevate our insulin and our blood glucose and blue light after dark being on a device
after dark can stimulate cravings.
So I mean, people don't think that this is affecting them until they get away from it
and then you'll see how different your body feels, that anxiety you feel, the inflammation
you feel, the appetites and cravings you feel, they might all go away just by limiting your
device usage.
Would you agree?
Right.
I see it happening every few days when I can convince someone to just try it for a while.
No, I agree 100%.
So I'm glad I got your thoughts on that.
So we'll jump into questions now.
We've got a wide variety of questions.
So the first one is from Spencer Steele and he asks, when do you think it's worthwhile
to try antibiotics and how would you go about it when suffering things like food intolerances,
violent reactions and gut issues?
So do you think there's a place for antibiotics, Dr. Pete?
Oh, yeah, but the natural antibiotics, food, easily digested food will normalize the flora
in most cases, lots of unirritating fiber, the so-called soluble fibers, sometimes sort
of the most irritating of pectin, for example, can make an animal of both aggressive and depressed
or a simple fiber, cellulose or oat man can have an anti-depress, anti-depression, anti-aggression
effect.
But then if that isn't enough, if you use one of the old antibiotics discovered 50 years
or more ago, then you avoid some of the worst risks, recent antibiotics are able to do things
like cause your tendons to break, very damaging to your connective tissues.
So the old ones, erythromycin, penicillin, and tetracycline, they're still very effective.
They have modernized variants that are still pretty safe, erythromycin, anthocillin, and
adoxycycline or minocycline are still very close to the original old antibiotics.
They can produce a beneficial effect in just a few hours, like taking a half a penicillin
tablet four or five hours apart, sometimes within eight or 10 hours, your symptoms will
be gone.
Wow.
And so you're not opposed to more maybe the old school antibiotics as opposed to some
of the newer ones out, yeah.
Yeah, it's very important to check the side effects of an antibiotic, who's name you don't
recognize.
Okay.
And what about, you mentioned natural antibiotics, are you a fan of things like olive leaf extract
or garlic or like colloidal silver or anything like that?
Some of those have at least as serious side effects.
I happen to know a woman who took colloidal silver, I think it was around 1950, and she
never appeared in public without gloves and a dark veil, because her skin color had turned
purple.
Wow.
So interesting.
Okay.
So next question, this is a follow up to our last podcast on the advice about asthma.
This individual wants to understand the LOX enzyme and leukotrienes that are heavily involved
with the asthma response, drugs like Singular, which antagonize leukotrienes are effective
at preventing asthma attacks.
Could the reason be that a low blood sugar state will increase adrenaline, which would
then increase the activity of LOX?
Yeah.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Exactly.
I think that's what brings on nocturnal asthma attacks, for example, a lot of people die
during the night, because of the horrible attack of asthma, but normally, the blood
sugar falls during the night, just so you can not waste your energy while you sleep.
But the falling of blood glucose causes your histamine and adrenaline to increase.
And that combination causes inflammation and constriction of your respiratory tubes.
Cool.
All right.
So they kind of knew that inherently, they just needed your validation of that, so that's
good.
Dylan Knight asks, does Ray think that creatine monohydrate supplementation could be beneficial
for muscle recovery, brain function, et cetera?
I would be very, very cautious with it, for sure, not in large quantities.
Like getting too much protein, too much of that can increase your ammonia production,
and the excess ammonia that you have to dispose of consumes your carbon dioxide to form urea
and detoxify the ammonia, but the consumption of your CO2 combining with ammonia is exactly
what can bring on an asthma attack, because CO2 is sedative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-asma.
Yeah, no, I'm glad you mentioned really higher protein diets, too.
In your opinion, what is an adequate protein intake, because there's all schools of thought
out there about that, too.
Is it one gram per pound of body weight?
Is it half your weight in grams?
What do you say?
It depends on your age, very largely.
I rode a barn when he was beyond middle age, somewhat, decided to experiment with the high-protein
diet, and he had been just eating a traditional farm-type diet, and when he increased the
protein, he found he had to steadily double his daily thyroid intake.
That's been 40-50 years ago that he mentioned that, but there's been very little follow-up
on quite what that happens, but if you look at the requirement of a high-quality protein
to have optimal growth during youth, that drops off sharply as soon as you stop growing,
because amino acids like mesionine, arginine, tryptophan, cysteine, and a few other amino
acids are used primarily for growth and replacement.
So when you aren't growing, you note only the very small amounts to replace your skin
and hair and cells that are being renewed.
So there's a great drop-off around the age of 30 in how much protein you really need,
because when you're getting excess, these more recent studies are showing that just restricting
mesionine, for example, to the very small amount you need to renew your tissues in animal
studies at that borderline mesionine deficiency extends their lifespan 40%, and you get smaller
increases if you restrict just one of the other turnover-supporting proteins like cysteine
in particular, and it happens that individually in excess of cysteine or tryptophan has a
direct inflammatory action, which can damage brain cells, increase the risk of asthma attacks,
and so on.
So a real requirement for these essential amino acids after the age of 30 probably fairly
continuously decreases right into old age, and people have noticed for a long time that
very old people sometimes go along for years eating absolutely none of the essential amino
acids, living just on a jello, basically, which lacks all of the essential growth-promoting
amino acids, and in the last several years an anti-aging, anti-biotic called rapamycin
is one of its names.
What it does is to inhibit an enzyme that promotes growth.
This growth-promoting enzyme is called an alien target of rapamycin or mTOR, and if
you inhibit that by not eating these essential amino acids in excess, you turn off the excess
growth stimulus and greatly reduce both aging and cancer.
And it's established as optimal amino acids intake, for example, in an old MIT study that
an active younger person probably eats about 80 grams per day, but that goes with the assumption
that you're eating a regular amount of energy foods.
And so if you're eating 80 grams of good protein per day, that situation is also one in which
you're probably eating 4,000 calories per day just to maintain your good activity level.
If you, in middle age, find that you put on weight when you eat a normal 4,000 calories,
people tend to cut back on the ratio of carbohydrate to protein.
And instead of having, say, 400, 4,000 calories and 50 grams of protein, they will get a much
higher proportion of their protein, calories from protein rather than carbohydrates.
So if you look at a healthy person's ratio, they're burning lots of carbohydrate calories
in combination with that 80 grams, for example, but if you cut your calories by half to avoid
any excess weight, then you have to proportionally cut your protein basically in half.
I've suggested that to people who were having all kinds of anti-cyroid symptoms, couldn't
get their temperature up, their heart rate was always slow, and all of the signs of hypo-cyroid
were there.
If they just increased either decreased the protein number of grams or increased the carbohydrate
number of grams, the latter, they might put on extra fat, but if they keep the ratio of
maybe seven grams of carbohydrate to each gram of protein, so your diet would be something
like 50 grams of protein and maybe 400 grams of carbohydrate.
That raises your temperature, increases your heart rate, and gets your thyroid going again.
Cool.
Okay, so out of curiosity, how much protein do you think someone like you at 85 eats or
how much do you eat?
I've been experimenting cutting back my protein, and I find that I don't need as much thyroid
supplement to keep everything working.
It's hard to not exceed 50 grams a day of protein, but by cutting fat calories drastically,
then you can do it, you can eat pretty much all the calories you can hold if it's in the
form of carbohydrates.
Okay, so the next question I stuck in here because my seven-year-old loves you, and she
has another question for you.
She likes to ask questions whenever I do these podcasts, and she told me to tell you hello.
She asked, "Why is gluten not great for our bodies?"
She told me that I might have an answer, but she wanted to know what your answer is.
It's one of the storage proteins.
It's particular for certain grasses like wheat, and it stores the energy and amino acids that
the plant needs when you moisten the seed to activate the enzymes.
It provides both energy and amino acids to sustain the growth of the plant proteins.
It's a very low-quality protein, nutritionally, such that if you soak your seeds and trick
them into thinking they're going to grow, the nutritional protein value increases as
the toxic effects of the gluten are decreased.
The nature of this particular protein happens to overlap with some of the molecules in the
covering of insects, and some microorganisms, and agenically or immunologically, have these
similarities between gluten and harmful insects covering.
There's a further overlap that, under the influence of estrogen, our intestinal tissues
also become activated in that, so that women in particular are especially sensitive to
gluten, including the irritating effects of gluten.
Basically, it's a storage protein rather than a functional growth-related protein.
That's so fascinating.
I didn't even know that women were more sensitive.
I mean, it makes sense, because the clients I see, it's always the women that seem to
have the biggest gut issues going on, or the symptoms related to gluten intolerance such
as anxiety or heart palpitations and things like that, so that's really interesting that
you've even seen women in general be more sensitive to the effects of gluten.
Next question is, AKS111 asks, "Does vitamin D supplementation lead to magnesium depletion?"
No, I think it helps to regulate both magnesium and calcium, and theoretically there might
be a point at which you could have antagonism between magnesium and calcium, but generally
they are both quieting, steadying, protective minerals with very similar effects to each
other.
You can inject them intravenously with a sedating action.
Sulfate, for example, has been used as a general anesthesia, and you get a definite calming
or quieting effect from the intravenous calcium administration, and both of those are supported
and normalized by vitamin D. There's a close interaction with thyroid hormone, too.
In the deficiency of thyroid hormone, your cell can't bind and retain magnesium, and
the calcium steadying effect is fairly useless if you don't have the ability to retain magnesium
as one of the stabilizers.
But you would agree that magnesium is necessary for the assimilation of vitamin D, right?
We need magnesium to help our bodies make vitamin D?
Yeah, and both of them are closely connected to thyroid level.
The magnesium is very, very quickly lost if your thyroid is deficient.
Yeah, I had that issue when I went through the toxic mold, and my thyroid got pretty
much blasted in the wrong direction, and I couldn't keep magnesium in enough.
It was like I couldn't get enough magnesium.
I would still get leg cramps even after 1,200, 1,500 milligrams of magnesium.
There are some books specifically on that, the important role of thyroid in maintaining
cell magnesium and holding down excitability and allergies and so on.
Yeah, do you happen to know the names of those books we could look up?
Cherry Aikawa, I think, is the name of the best author on that subject.
Okay, I'll see if I can find that and put it in the show notes for people, too.
Next question, Sylvia254 asks, "What about melanoma and hyperpigmentation on the face?
What causes it, and how can one reduce it?"
Not melanoma, melasma, I think, is what she means with the hyperpigmentation.
Yeah, melasma is pretty much under the influence of estrogen, such as in pregnancy, in general,
as such as big blots of brown pigment around the lips and the house and forehead, cheeks.
And it's because of the excitatory effects of estrogen, very similar other kinds of excitation
will cause increased pigment formation, lack of energy induced by anything toxic will defensively
turn on melanin synthesis.
And it's sort of the model of basic irritation and toxic condition of the skin, but you can
inject various things like chopped up sections of DNA and create a region of melasma-like
pigmentation and a deficiency of niacin amide, you can reverse much of the melanoma effect
by applying a high concentration of niacin amide in water, fire every day to the area
of melanoma, and what we're doing is reducing metabolic, similar energy deficiency pigment
formation happens with exposure to ultraviolet light or ionizing radiation.
It's everywhere you look, these harmful excitatory processes, radiation, energy depletion, estrogen
excess, all of these promote defensive pigment formation.
And so would progesterone, could you actually apply progesterone topically to the melasma
or the hyperpigmentation to see a difference in that too?
Often by improving the vitality of the condition of the cells, it can temporarily darken the
pigment, so I wouldn't use it alone, hoping to block the estrogen effect, better to work
from the thyroid side to get your energy up and lower the estrogen before you try to progesterone.
Okay, next question, Gina P. asks, "What are Dr. Pete's thoughts on ivermectin and does
he feel that humans should deworm themselves regularly like we do horses and dogs?"
No, people are not so often exposed to worms and parasites, dogs and pastured animals are
just almost daily exposed to parasites, but people with normal washing habits, household
hygiene, and so on, are very, very seldom exposed and the effect of, the beneficial
effects of ivermectin are mostly from anti-inflammatory actions, so in small amounts it's safe, but
it's the larger doses, possibly continued for a long time, as prevention that could
be harmful, because in the millions of doses that have been administered, it was almost
always in just one or two or three doses to eliminate the parasites, and so it was never
a prophylactic daily prevention syndrome system.
Yeah, and so, like looking into ivermectin, you're right, there are so many anti-inflammatory
properties to it, as well as, like you can see research on like anti-tumor and anti-epileptic
seizure, I mean there's all kinds of things that it affects, but like you're saying it
really needs to be done cautiously, because long term, I mean are we killing off, when
you kill off parasites, like within medication like that, are you also killing off good bacteria,
like would we be harming our gut flora?
No, I've never heard of that problem with ivermectin, it's so mainly anti-inflammatory
that's where the problems come in with epilepsy, cancer, and parasites, inflammation is the
whole problem, and so anything that will correct the inflammation takes care of the problem.
Okay, all right, next is Adam Catches Fish, he asks what is a good protocol for a woman
of menstruating age to supplement with Progest E, how much per day and should that change
when the time of the month changes in order to help with PMS issues?
Oh yeah, the first thing is to consider your body temperature in relation to the symptoms,
and often thyroid deficiency or nutritional deficiency might be the real cause of your
PMS. Even though you can take a big dose to totally knock out the PS symptoms, such as
migraines, if you don't fix the thyroid problem, it's going to bounce right back and need another
big dose of progesterone. So the more progesterone it takes to alleviate a symptom, the more
likely you are to be hypothyroid. Ordinarily, the cycling woman should only use it from
about two days after ovulation and can continue it up until the day menstruation begins.
That natural pattern is promoting thyroid function while inhibiting estrogen effects,
and that is protected against a long-range risk of cancer from the estrogen exposure.
So if you can give estrogen as long as you're interrupting estrogen with surges of progesterone
or a good background of thyroid hormone, but you generally don't want to continue taking
those progesterone every day of the month because it's the surging effect that specifically knocks
out the estrogen keeping a lot of toxicity. So that just day 16, like for a 28-day cycle,
you're thinking day 16 to day 28, doing that surge will help get estrogen levels down,
even harking back to that question about hyperpigmentation. That's maybe something
they could try to do to knock down some of that estrogen that's causing the melasma.
Yeah, but being sure to pay attention to your temperature. The progesterone should
increase your basal temperature about a degree or more during that part of the month.
If it isn't doing that, then you probably need a thyroid supplement.
And so someone that was taking progesterone every day and they're cycling, that may put them at
risk for promoting estrogen. You're not getting that surge. Is that what you're saying? So their
estrogen might stay high? Yeah, it doesn't increase the estrogen, but it fails to knock it out.
Makes sense. You got to have the different variations that nature intended us to have.
Okay, Eugenie Breda asks, "Dr. Pete, will you talk about your top 15 good carbs list?" Or maybe if
you don't have 15, just your good carbs list. Okay, orange juice, all of the citrus juices,
conquered grape juice, well-cooked root vegetables, turnips, carrots,
well-cooked cabbage family, broccoli, and Brussels pouts, for example.
The non-gluten grains are very safe, especially polished white rice,
nixtamalized corn or lime process, corn, oat bran. I forgot how many that was, but you didn't get.
Yeah, I kind of wrote them down, so I'll be sure to put it in the show notes. But yeah,
that was a good amount. I mean, you're making me hungry too. Just talk about it.
Okay, next one, we've got NCgirl9ify asks, "Dr. Pete, does vitamin D increase
DHEA levels?" Thank you so much. Vitamin C? Vitamin D is a dog.
Yeah, I think it does. It's anti-inflammatory, and I think that's favorable
as to improving your DHEA to cortisol ratio. Okay, perfect. Another listener, they didn't
give their name, but they said, "You mentioned in response to an explanation on the dangers of EFA
that although it was counterintuitive, it makes much sense to you. I'm struggling to understand
how it makes sense. Could you please expound on your understanding? As a person is struggling
with Hashimoto's and having recently recovered from colon cancer, I'm wondering how your form
of eating compares with the Mediterranean diet, which is supposed to be one of the best. Could
you please elaborate on EFA?" Oh, it's Gracie's gift. That's who asked that.
What does that stand for? Essential fatty acids. The dangers of maybe,
I guess she's maybe thinking of fish oil, like a highly-unsaturated fish oil. No, there are
some very good books that go into a matter of more than a thousand references
on the question of essential fatty acids and fish oils. The name of one that occurs to me is
fishy business. Okay, I'll put that in the net. And my website has,
I think, three or four very basic explanations for
why the doctrine of such a thing as an essential fatty acid was resurrected. It had been
knocked out, demonstrated to be a fallacy in the 1940s. It just absolutely knocked out. Nothing
scientific left. But the seed oil industry was losing their customers. They produced a huge
amount of soy oil and related polyunsaturated oils to make paints and plastics from petroleum
displaced that around 1950. And they found that the essential fatty acids created economical
faptein in pigs and other farm animals. So this was promoted, the essential fatty acids, or PUFA,
came to be advertised as edible because they would make pigs get fat cheaply. That led to
promoting them as human health foods. A very ridiculous set of reasoning incorporated the
idea that PUFA lowers cholesterol causes heart disease. Therefore, PUFA as an essential nutrient
should be included in the diet. The more, the better. Every step of the reasoning was
simply an advertisement to get people to fatten themselves on PUFA the way pigs were being fattened.
So it's a gigantic industrial food fraud all through the 1950s. Absolutely no science remaining
but penetrating just about everything in industrial society. Not only sold it to prevent
heart attacks, but one particular set of experiments in veterans founded
on the heart-protective diet, more people were dying of heart attacks caused by the essential
fatty acids. And not only that, but besides heart disease, they were dying from a higher rate of
cancer exactly what the 1940s animal experiments had demonstrated. All of it lowers cholesterol
at the essential fatty acids are the basis for damaging the circulatory system
and for activating cancer production. Okay, so check out, I'm going to put that fishy business
link in the show notes so they can check that out. That sounds really interesting. I might have to
read that myself. Yeah, there are several articles on the website about essential fatty acids.
I think one contains about 80 references that nothing is huge since more recent books have done.
Awesome. Okay, I like the next question and I'm going to have a follow-up question after it too,
because this is a good question. Eli asks, when estrogen falls within the accepted normal range
in a common blood test, does this mean estrogen levels are indeed normal for optimal health? Now,
I'll add to that. I want to hear your thoughts on what somebody would actually get tested because
there's estradiol, there's total estrogen serum. What is a proper blood test to see actually the
tissue levels of estrogen? And then to ask his question, are they indeed normal with this range
that they give you? My website has the article called "Tissue Bound Estrogen" and that cites
a few articles in which they actually measured the amount of estrogen in the various tissues
versus the amount in the bloodstream. And what's in the bloodstream, most of it is circulating
as a water-soluble form, either the sulfuric acid-bound form or the glucuronic acid-bound form.
These are inert estrogenically and are leading the body, but if an irritation locally
intervenes before these water-soluble forms have left in the urine, the inflamed tissue
will bind to the circulating inactive estrogens and reactivate them.
Protesterone is a tissue anti-estrogen factor that inactivates,
prevents the inflammation that captures estrogen out of the circulation
and promotes re-attaching these solubilizing factors in a very systematic way. It lowers
tissue estrogen content in lowering the tissue estrogen, it's re-establishing the water-soluble
forms, letting it get the rest of the way out of the body through the kidneys. And so if you have
adequate progesterone, you're going to have the inactivated forms of estrogen in circulation
before it leaves in urine. But if you don't have adequate progesterone, all of these processes
are going to be in favor of reactivating estrogen in the tissues so that it manifests when your
blood estrogen is very low. The crucial tissues such as the breast, the uterus, and several other
tissues that are subject to developing cancer under the influence of estrogen, these tissues
increase their estrogen content during menopause when your blood estrogen is lowest.
That's why tissue bound estrogen concept neutralizes all of the medical reasoning
regarding the nature of menopause and what estrogen and progesterone are doing.
Yeah, which makes sense why blood work is a snapshot in a week and a month and a day and
it's really not always definitive, but symptoms don't lie. That's why I always have my clients
fill out a symptom burden analysis. So really, if somebody's looking at a lot of high estrogen
symptoms, that's where their answer is, yeah. Yeah, and the low body temperature is what the
significance is very consistent. Estrogen lowers your body temperature and lower body temperature
favors the production of estrogen. Okay, next question is from JD. He asks about your current
thoughts on utilizing urea and if you think it would be safe to use ongoing or just during an
acute period of noticeable edema. Oh, yeah, it has a well-established history for heart failure,
for example, or for brain injury. There's one story on the internet of a kid who was
brain injured losing progress, going backwards to losing reflexes. And they decided to,
I think it was 90 grams of intravenous urea that they gave him. And that allowed the brain
to give up its edematous fluid collection. And he was very quickly back at school
with normal brain function where he had been approaching brain death.
Okay, next one is Ruth asks, I have a few moles on my face when I apply Progest E. Is it okay to
sweep over the moles or should I avoid them? I'm trying to reduce wrinkles. I've always avoided
contact with vitamin E or other oily materials and moles just because vitamin E's viscosity
can sort of seal up the pores and be irritating. And so, if I have a noticeable mole, I'll put
either a progesterone or a DHEA or a mixture that may be as close as an inch to the mole,
but a tissue surrounding. And that generally causes the pigment cells to leave the mole.
Several times I've seen waves of pigment cells with the shape of the mole
migrating away from the place where I put the progesterone. For example, on my temple,
I put some DHEA and progesterone closer to my eyebrow. And behind the mole, the next day,
I had a ring of pigment, sort of like a bullseye, and three days of applying new vitamin E and
pore bone on the other side of the mole. I had three concentric rings of pigment leading the
mole. Meanwhile, the mole was fading and shrinking. I'm showing that the cells were absolutely
fleeing from the abnormal mole, heading back into my scalp where the function was to
produce pigmented terror.
I love all your personal experiences. You've had so many different experiences
with your health, so I love when you share those. Okay, Paula has a nice easy question.
Is milk high in tryptophan? I'm trying to consume foods lower in tryptophan, but it's hard to get
the adequate amount of protein needed. A huge thank you to you and Dr. Pete. He literally saved my life.
Yeah, milk is high in tryptophan, so you just have to keep that in mind. But its effects,
the excitatory effects of tryptophan are moderated by the effects of calcium,
the quality effects, and the same amount of tryptophan in meat is accompanied by a very high ratio
of phosphate, which is excitatory. And so from meat and fish, for example, the phosphate
adds to the toxic inflammatory effects of tryptophan and the good high content of calcium makes the
milk much safer. Okay, very good. Do you have time for a couple more? Are you doing okay on time?
Okay, great. Tash Lawson asks, I get terrible hay fever despite taking antihistamines,
working on gut health and lowering estrogen. Any thoughts from Dr. Pete would be hugely
appreciated. Thank you. Always consider your thyroid status, which controls your blood sugar
and adrenaline and histamine. And as far as like that DAO enzyme that breaks down histamine in the
gut, is there a certain way you like to promote that? Let's say somebody might be low on DAO.
No, it's really more important to not make the histamine in the first place.
Yeah, maybe avoiding those histamine reactive foods too. So okay, Vel plays 2.0. Now, this is
kind of a controversial question, but I wanted to make sure and ask it. So there's a website that's
called NoFap and they're helping people get away from porn addiction. So he was asking, how about
help with getting off of porn addiction as well as semen retention?
How to get rid of semen retention? I think it's how to, I'm not sure, he just put semen retention
in quotations. So I'm assuming it's maybe he wants to hold on to semen? Oh, that's an old
Asian medical idea that the yogis who would retain it as long as possible,
calling it the elixir of life. It was very similar to mandal energy.
Their actual thinking wasn't too clear, but it definitely isn't good for the health to retain it.
If a couple has been married a long time and hasn't expelled semen frequently,
there's greater risk of having chromosomal defective
sperm cells because of the age of the retained semen.
And how about help with like porn addiction? Are there any recommendations you would have for that?
I have no, I think mostly they need a girlfriend.
Okay, I love your humor. All right, we'll do one more question here. Actually,
two more because the second one is kind of fun. We'll do these last two and then I didn't get to
everybody's, but it'll show up in the next time we do this. So if your question wasn't answered,
just know that it will be. All right, ASK 111 asks, what do you do for low temperature and hair loss
for someone with thalassemia minor genetic mutation? I think thyroid usually helps, you know,
just by warming up your long bones, wearing long underwear, for example, or increasing your thyroid
activity, your bones are warm and they make red blood cells a lot faster.
Okay, cool. Last one here. And this is, I remember you mentioning these cookies,
the recipe for the B1 cookies. And so this individual minor is asking,
can you ask for the recipe for the B1 cookies from Ray?
Oh, I was using a free term and eggs and sugar as the recipe. But I learned that the
wheat germ has far too much phosphate. And so the effect for alertness, and
someone who isn't well nourished, the effect can be tremendous to have a
vitamin cookie along with a cup of coffee, plenty of sugar in the coffee and cookie. But there are
much better things than wheat germ is the source of the vitamins. I wonder if you could use,
like you mentioned, the oat bran because you're a fan of oat bran. Yeah, it makes really good cookies.
Okay, good. I'll put a little idea for that in the show notes too. Okay,
we will wrap up with that. And I'll let you get on with your day. But I know I speak for everybody
when I say we so appreciate you answering these questions. And I hope they're fun for you too.
Yeah, yes, definitely new ones.
Yeah, yeah, awesome. Well, thank you so much for your time, Dr. Pete, and we'll do this again.
And you're much appreciated. You guys don't forget to check out his newsletter. I'll have
that link in the show notes for you to reach out and get your copy. So thank you so much.
Okay, thank you. All right, bye for now.
Light bulb moment. I have an idea for you. How about getting an anti blue light light bulb? That's
right. You could put these in your house at night, and they would not allow any blue light after the
sun goes down. I have these in my lamps, and I really love them because it's like this amber
glow at night. That's not offensive to my melatonin at all. Now you may know that I'm kind of a blue
light blocking glass junkie. In fact, when I'm not wearing this pair, I'm wearing this pair. Yes. And
when I'm not wearing this pair, I might put on this pair. And in case I don't want to wear my
contacts, I actually have my prescription pair. Check that out. You can kind of see that it's
different than the other lenses. This one's actually going to have my big thick Coke bottle
glass prescription in there so that I can wear these and not have to have my contacts in at night.
So yeah, I'm kind of a blue light blocking junkie, but what I'll say is that my sleep has never been
better. And it's as simple as putting on a pair of glasses or using a light bulb that blocks out the
blue light at night. Or perhaps you want a little nightlight for your kids because here's the thing,
blue light nightlights actually cause myopia in children. That's right. They can become near
sighted if they're exposed to blue light after dark. So getting one of these anti blue light
nightlights for the kids or for yourselves, to get in the bathroom, to get in the kitchen
for those late night munchies, which you shouldn't have if you're blocking blue light. That's right.
Blue light actually stimulates your cravings after dark. So by wearing these glasses,
not only will you sleep better, but you may not get those late night munchies that are so prevalent.
So fit for 10. That'll save you 10% off either your favorite pair of glasses or the really cool
light bulbs and nightlights. Every cell needs energy to perform. And one way that I like to
provide the fuel for those cells and those little mitochondria in there is with methylene blue.
Methylene blue is literally food for your mitochondria. It delivers oxygen into the cell
on so many different levels. And if you haven't tried it yet, I want to tell you about the product
that I love from Lifeblood. So their methylene blue, lifeblood.co's, methylene blue is my favorite
for purity reasons, for quality assurance, knowing I'm getting a really great product. I did a
podcast with the founder Adam Marafiodi. So please check that out. But also check out lifeblood.co
and use my code JODEL to save on your purchase of their methylene blue product. I also love their
magnesium. I love their magnesium powder that you make your own magnesium out of. So check out all
of their wonderful products and use my code to help you save. Methylene blue is also very
anti-parasitic, anti-viral, anti-microbial. So methylene blue to the rescue. Get yours today.
Well, if you've listened to me at all, you'll know that I preach protein. And protein is the
building blocks of every healthy cell in our body. And you need protein throughout the day
to sustain really good healthy cell turnover. And I get asked a lot, what about if I don't have time
for protein? I can't really get in a meat source. It's okay. I love a good whey protein. And my
favorite recently has been this grass-fed whey from Iconic Protein. I love their ingredients.
I love that they use a monk fruit. It's simple ingredients. There's literally four ingredients
in this protein powder. And it's not going to cost you an arm and a leg. There's a lot of
grass-fed protein powders out there that are like boutiquey and they're all about, you know,
50, 60, $70. No, this guy's going to run you less than $30. And with my discount code, you're going
to get 15% off. So check out Iconic Protein. They also have, for those of you really on the go and
you don't have time for anything, even blending up a protein drink, you can get their immunity
coffee. Now, you know I love my coffee. And this iconic drink is made with MCT oil and all natural
ingredients. And it actually has a few vitamins and minerals that help with immunity. So this is
something I'm going to grab. I'm going to add it to my coffee. Maybe I'm going to drink it on its
own. It's a really nice way to grab and go. So for those of you that say, I don't have time for
protein, now you do. Check out Iconic Protein and their immunity coffee, as well as their different
flavors of protein powder. And use my code JODEL, J-O-D-E-L-L-E, to say 15% off your Iconic Protein
purchase.